Student Attendance Management System
Overview
The Student Attendance Management System is a web-based application designed to efficiently manage student attendance for educational institutions. It allows instructors to mark, track, and manage the attendance of students in various courses. The system provides features for both administrators and students, including the ability to view attendance reports, track progress, and ensure accurate attendance records.

This system is built using Java with Spring Boot as the backend framework, Thymeleaf for the front-end templating engine, and Maven as the build tool for project management.

Features
Student Authentication: Secure login system for students and instructors.
Attendance Marking: Allows instructors to mark attendance for their classes.
Student Dashboard: Students can view their attendance records and progress.
Admin Dashboard: Admins can manage courses, view student details, and monitor overall attendance.
Report Generation: Instructors and admins can generate attendance reports in a visual and exportable format.
Course Management: Admins can add, update, and delete courses.
Student Management: Admins can add, update, and delete student records.
Tech Stack
Backend: Spring Boot
Frontend: Thymeleaf, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap
Database: MySQL
Build Tool: Maven
Authentication: Spring Security
Version Control: Git/GitHub
IDE: IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, or any IDE supporting Java and Spring Boot.
Project Structure
bash
Copy code
/attendance-management
    /src
        /main
            /java
                /com
                    /school
                        /attendance
                            /controller        (Controller classes for routes)
                            /model             (Java model classes representing data)
                            /repository        (Database repository interfaces)
                            /service           (Business logic and services)
                            /security          (Security configurations and classes)
                            /AttendanceApplication.java  (Main Spring Boot application class)
            /resources
                /static
                    /css
                    /js
                    /images
                /templates
                    /login.html
                    /dashboard.html
                    /attendance.html
                    /student-profile.html
                /application.properties (Configuration file for database and application settings)
    /pom.xml                   (Maven configuration file)
    /README.md                 (Project documentation)
Setup Instructions
Prerequisites
Java 11+ installed on your machine.
Maven 3.6+ installed for building and running the project.
MySQL database running locally or remotely for data storage.
IDE (Integrated Development Environment) such as IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse.
Steps to Set Up
Clone the Repository
Clone this project to your local machine using the following command:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/student-attendance-management.git
cd student-attendance-management
Install Dependencies
Maven will automatically handle dependencies when the project is built, but you can manually install them using:

bash
Copy code
mvn clean install
Set Up the Database

Create a MySQL database, e.g., attendance_db.
Update the application.properties file with your MySQL connection details:
properties
Copy code
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/attendance_db
spring.datasource.username=yourusername
spring.datasource.password=yourpassword
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver
Run the Application
To run the application locally, use the following Maven command:

bash
Copy code
mvn spring-boot:run
The application will be accessible at:

arduino
Copy code
http://localhost:8080
Access the System

Admin Login: Admin credentials can be configured in the database or hardcoded for initial testing.
Student Login: Students can log in using their registered email and password.
How to Use the System
For Students
Login: Students can log in to the system using their credentials (username/email and password).
View Attendance: After logging in, students will be redirected to their dashboard where they can view their attendance records, including missed classes and overall percentage.
Profile Management: Students can update their personal information, such as name, email, and profile picture.
For Instructors
Login: Instructors will log in using their assigned credentials.
Mark Attendance: Instructors can mark attendance for each class through an easy-to-use interface.
View Attendance Reports: Instructors can view individual student attendance for the courses they teach.
For Admins
Login: Admins can log in with their credentials to manage the system.
Course Management: Admins can add, edit, or delete courses from the system.
Student Management: Admins can manage student records, including adding, updating, and deleting students.
Generate Reports: Admins can generate detailed attendance reports for specific periods and courses.
Database Schema
Here is a high-level overview of the database schema:

Tables
students

id (Primary Key)
name
email
password
course_id (Foreign Key to courses)
courses

id (Primary Key)
course_name
course_code
instructor_id (Foreign Key to instructors)
attendance

id (Primary Key)
student_id (Foreign Key to students)
course_id (Foreign Key to courses)
date
status (Present, Absent, Late)
instructors

id (Primary Key)
name
email
password